# GPCR_neurotox

## Abstract
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are therapeutic targets for over 30% of approved drugs, yet specific GPCR subtypes act as molecular initiating events in several neurotoxic adverse outcome pathways. Therefore, knowledge of GPCR-ligand interactions is critical for computational toxicology and drug safety assessment. However, accurate predictions of GPCR-ligand binding can be challenging due to receptor conformational flexibility, complex membrane environment, and lack of selectivity among ligands. In this study, we identified 119 GPCRs involved in neurotoxicity and evaluated three deep learning architectures for creating a unified GPCR-ligand binding predictor: dual-projection similarity networks and transformer encoders (both using pre-computed embeddings) as well as bidirectional cross-attention networks (with frozen or fine-tuned encoders). All the models performed well on three different datasets, achieving area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) values of 0.91 on a random-split validation set, 0.81 on structurally different ligands, and 0.61 on novel GPCRs. However, out-of-family proteins or those with contrasting ligand interactions were more difficult to predict in the unseen protein test set. We also assessed the models’ ability to detect ligand selectivity, achieving an AUROC of 0.71 on ligands with at least five known GPCR interactions, although sensitivity remained low at 0.58. Our results exemplify the difficulty in predicting GPCR-ligand interactions but provide a comprehensive overview of conditions where a focused GPCR-ligand predictor could offer advantages.
